(25-Sep-2015/hjaaj)

README for $dalton_root/DALTON/test/ :

To see how to revise test criteria, add new tests etc., please consult
        http://runtest.readthedocs.org

Some advice on good test criteria:

1. Do never check on intermediate energies in SCF iterations nor the number of SCF iterations,
   some of these numbers will probably change each time convergence algorithms are improved.
   It is of course very OK to check on the first SCF energy in iteration 1 (from start guess)
   and the final converged SCF energy and orbital energies.
2. The same is true for MCSCF iterations and for geometry optimizations: never check on intermediate
   energies, never check on number of iterations to convergence.
3. Remember that most calculated values are linear in wave function convergence, only
   total energies from variational wave functions are quadratic.
   (MP2 and CCSD energies are thus linear in SCF convergence.)
   Thus as rule of thumb, if wave function is converged to 1.d-6, then do not test sharper
   than 1.d-5 (allowing for a prefactor of at most 10 - in some cases you may need to go to
   e.g. 2.d-5). The answer to the question of "abs_tolerance" or "rel_tolerance" depends on the
   property.
4. For total energies remember that numerical noise from the 15 digits of double precision,
   as well as integral screening thresholds, can make the reliable number of digits in
   the total energy considerably less than quadratic accuracy of 1.d-10 (when the wave function is
   converged to 1.d-5). For MCSCF, polarizable embedding, PCM and other combined models,
   only the total energy has quadratic accuracy, the different partial energy contributions
   (inactive energy, active energy, PE energy, PCM energy, ...) are only of linear accuracy.
5. In response properties, the reliable digits in calculated values is also determined by
   thresholds for the linear response equations.
6. Use the "ignore_sign" option for properties like transition moments for which the sign
   is undefined.
7. Use the "ignore_below" option when you have "rel_tolerance" and calculated small numbers
   (often numbers which ought to be exactly zero) which are affected by numerical noise,
   e.g. because of deviation of the molecular geometry from exact point group symmetry.


